TRAP: Targeted Redirecting of Agentic Preferences
Hangoo Kang∗1, Jehyeok Yeon∗1,Gagandeep Singh1
1University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
{hangook2,jehyeok2,ggnds}@illinois.edu
Abstract
Autonomous agentic AI systems powered by vision-language models (VLMs)
are rapidly advancing toward real-world deployment, yet their cross-modal rea-
soning capabilities introduce new attack surfaces for adversarial manipulation
that exploit semantic reasoning across modalities. Existing adversarial attacks
typically rely on visible pixel perturbations or require privileged model or en-
vironment access, making them impractical for stealthy, real-world exploitation.
We introduce TRAP, a novel generative adversarial framework that manipulates
the agent’s decision-making using diffusion-based semantic injections into the
vision-language embedding space. Our method combines negative prompt–based
degradation with positive semantic optimization, guided by a Siamese semantic
network and layout-aware spatial masking. Without requiring access to model
internals, TRAP produces visually natural images yet induces consistent selection
biases in agentic AI systems. We evaluate TRAP on the Microsoft Common
Objects in Context (COCO) dataset, building multi-candidate decision scenar-
ios. Across these scenarios, TRAP consistently induces decision-level preference
redirection on leading models, including LLaVA-34B, Gemma3, GPT-4o, and
Mistral-3.2, significantly outperforming existing baselines such as SPSA, Bandit,
and standard diffusion approaches. These findings expose a critical, generalized
vulnerability: autonomous agents can be consistently misled through visually sub-
tle, semantically-guided cross-modal manipulations. Overall, our results show
the need for defense strategies beyond pixel-level robustness to address semantic
vulnerabilities in cross-modal decision-making. The code for TRAP is accessible
on GitHub at https://github.com/uiuc-focal-lab/TRAP.
1
Introduction
Vision-Language Models (VLMs) and autonomous agentic AI systems have significantly advanced
the capability of machines to navigate and interpret open-world environments [Radford et al., 2021,
Li et al., 2022a, Alayrac et al., 2022]. However, these powerful multimodal systems also introduce
new vulnerabilities, particularly through adversarial manipulations that exploit their integrated visual-
textual perception [Zhou et al., 2023, Moosavi-Dezfooli et al., 2016b]. A critical emerging threat is
cross-modal prompt injection, in which adversaries embed misleading semantic cues in one modality
(e.g., an image) to influence the interpretation and decision making of a model in another modality
(e.g., language understanding) [Liu et al., 2023c]. Unlike traditional unimodal adversarial attacks that
primarily perturb pixels or text unnoticeably [Goodfellow et al., 2015, Uesato et al., 2018, Madry
et al., 2019], these cross-modal attacks leverage semantic shifts, misleading autonomous agents
without triggering human suspicion.
Fully autonomous agents, such as GUI agents that navigate web interfaces without human oversight,
are particularly susceptible to adversarial manipulations. Recent work has shown that visual-language
agents can be jailbroken by adversarial environments, leading to unintended and potentially harmful
∗Equal contribution
39th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2025).


actions [Liao et al., 2025, Zhang et al., 2024b]. For example, a malicious pop-up or UI component
could trick an agent into clicking harmful links or executing unauthorized tasks, without human
intervention [Wu et al., 2024]. This highlights a critical safety flaw: such agents inherently trust their
perceptual inputs, making them highly vulnerable to subtle semantic perturbations [Li et al., 2024].
In this paper, we introduce TRAP, a novel adversarial framework explicitly designed to exploit
agentic systems’ vulnerabilities through semantic injection using diffusion models. Our approach
leverages the generative system of Stable Diffusion Rombach et al. [2022b] in combination with
CLIP embeddings to create realistic adversarial images that subtly mislead an agentic AI system’s
decision.
Input Target
Image
Luxurious
beautiful
shoes…
Positive
Text
Image
Embedding
Text
Embedding
CLIP
Attacker
Stable
Diffusion
…
Convolutional
Layers
Modulated Embedding
Step 1
Step 2
Step 3
Step 4
…
Image
Embedding
Text
Embedding
Modulated Embedding
Enhanced
Image
Layout Mask A
Common
features
Total Objective Function L
⊙
Optimized Image
Embedding
Siamese network
Common
features
Distinctive
features
Figure 1: Overview of the TRAP adversarial embedding optimization framework.
TRAP operates in four stages (Fig. 1). First, we extract CLIP embeddings for the target image and
adversarial prompt. Second, we iteratively optimize the image embedding using a Siamese semantic
network guided by prompt-aligned cues (e.g., "luxury," "premium quality"), with multiplicative
fusion modulated by a spatial layout mask [Chaitanya et al., 2020, Lee et al., 2021, Li et al., 2022b].
Third, we apply perceptual and semantic losses, including LPIPS Zhang et al. [2018], to preserve
identity and realism during optimization. Fourth, the modified embedding is decoded into a final
image using Stable Diffusion. This process yields images that are visually plausible yet semantically
manipulated to influence downstream agent decisions.
We rigorously evaluate TRAP using automated multimodal LLM-based evaluators performing N-
way comparisons, benchmarking against standard baselines such as: diffusion generation without
optimization, Simultaneous Perturbation Stochastic Approximation (SPSA) [Spall, 1987], and
Bandit [Ilyas et al., 2018b]. Our evaluation spans six leading multimodal models: LLaVA-1.5-
34B [Liu et al., 2023a], Gemma3-8B [Mesnard et al., 2025], Mistral-small-3.1-24B and Mistral-small-
3.2-24B, GPT-4o [OpenAI et al., 2024], and CogVLM [Wang et al., 2024a], covering both open-
and closed-source architectures. A robust agent should maintain its original objectives and resist
such preference manipulations, as allowing adversarial inputs to fundamentally alter decision-making
processes undermines the agent’s intended purpose and trustworthiness. Our results demonstrate that
TRAP significantly outperforms these baselines in shifting autonomous agents’ preferences toward
adversarially manipulated images. These findings provide strong evidence of critical vulnerabilities
within autonomous multimodal systems, raising important safety and trustworthiness concerns about
relying exclusively on autonomous perception without adequate safeguards.
Ultimately, this paper serves as both a critical demonstration of potential security vulnerabilities
in agentic AI systems and a call to action for developing more robust multimodal alignment, per-
ception safeguards, and adversarial defenses within autonomous systems deployed in real-world
environments.
2


2
Related Works
2.1
Adversarial Attacks on Agentic Systems
Recent advancements in autonomous, agentic AI systems have revealed critical vulnerabilities to
adversarial manipulations. Yang et al. [2024] and Wang et al. [2024b] demonstrate backdoor-injection
attacks that subtly corrupt agent behavior, misleading web agents during decision making. Similarly,
Wu et al. [2024] and Liao et al. [2025] reveal that carefully crafted prompt injections can lead agents
to take unintended actions, ranging from disclosing private information to leaking web contents.
However, these approaches require extensive access to either the environment’s internals or the
model’s parameters, an assumption rarely met in practical settings. In contrast, our work addresses
a more realistic attack setting in which the adversary can only manipulate their own indexed input
elements (e.g., images or prompts) without any knowledge of the underlying environment code or
model weights.
2.2
Image-based Adversarial Attacks
Image-based adversarial attacks have been extensively studied, focusing primarily on neural network
classifiers. White-box attacks, which require full gradient access, range from the foundational Fast
Gradient Sign Method (FGSM) [Goodfellow et al., 2015] to iterative optimization methods. These
include Projected Gradient Descent (PGD) [Madry et al., 2019] and more advanced approaches like
Carlini & Wagner (C&W) [Carlini and Wagner, 2016] and DeepFool [Moosavi-Dezfooli et al., 2016a],
which formulate the attack as a constrained optimization problem to find minimal perturbations.
In the more constrained black-box setting, query-based methods estimate gradients using techniques
like finite differences (SPSA [Uesato et al., 2018], ZOO [Chen et al., 2017b]) or evolutionary
strategies (Bandits [Ilyas et al., 2018b], NES [Ilyas et al., 2018a]). Other approaches bypass gradient
estimation entirely, such as the query-efficient Square Attack [Andriushchenko et al., 2020] or
decision-based methods like Boundary Attack [Brendel et al., 2018]. Different attack modalities have
also been explored, including localized Adversarial Patches [Brown et al., 2017] for physical-world
robustness and Universal Adversarial Perturbations (UAP) [Moosavi-Dezfooli et al., 2017] that are
image-agnostic.
These approaches typically aim to induce misclassification or alter model output minimally and
undetectably. Our work expands upon these methodologies by leveraging semantic manipulation
through text-guided diffusion models, aiming to influence model decisions at a deeper semantic level.
2.3
Diffusion Models and Semantic Image Manipulation
Diffusion-based generative models, such as Stable Diffusion, have emerged as powerful tools for high-
fidelity image synthesis guided by textual prompts. These models encode rich semantic relationships
between text and image domains, enabling precise manipulation of generated images. For example,
Wang et al. [2023], Dai et al. [2024] fine-tune latent diffusion codes to introduce targeted changes
in object appearance, such as color shifts or texture edits, that mislead classification models while
remaining imperceptible to humans. Liu et al. [2023b] guides the reverse diffusion process using
free-text instructions, producing adversarial examples that adhere to natural language descriptions
and allow fine-grained control over semantic attributes. Zhai et al. [2023a] shows that poisoning only
a small subset of text–image pairs during training can backdoor large text-to-image diffusion models
at the pixel, object, or style level, embedding hidden triggers that activate under specific prompts.
In contrast to these methods, our approach uses only the model embeddings to generate adversarial
images, without requiring access to model parameters or training data for the diffusion model.
3
Preliminaries
3.1
Stable Diffusion and Textual Guidance
Modern diffusion models, such as Stable Diffusion [Rombach et al., 2022b], operate not in the
high-dimensional pixel space RC×H×W but in a computationally cheaper, perceptually-equivalent
latent space. This is achieved using a Variational Autoencoder (VAE), which consists of an encoder
EVAE and a decoder DVAE. The encoder compresses a full-resolution image x0 into a smaller latent
3


representation z0 = EVAE(x0). The decoder is trained to reconstruct the image from this latent,
x0 ≈DVAE(z0).
The core diffusion process, which learns to reverse a noising process, is trained entirely within this
latent space. The generative model is a denoising network ϵθ that is trained to predict the noise ϵ
that was added to a noisy latent zt at timestep t. This denoising network can be conditioned on
external information, such as a text prompt. To achieve this, the text prompt p is first converted into a
d-dimensional embedding c = ET (p) using a text encoder. This conditioning vector c is then fed into
the ϵθ network, typically via cross-attention layers, allowing the text to guide the denoising process:
ϵθ(zt, t, c).
To strengthen this guidance, modern samplers use Classifier-Free Guidance (CFG) [Ho and Salimans,
2022]. At each denoising step t, the network makes two predictions: one conditioned on the prompt’s
embedding c, ϵθ(zt, t, c), and one unconditioned, ϵθ(zt, t, ∅), which uses a null-text embedding ∅.
The model then extrapolates in the "direction" of the prompt by mixing these two predictions where
the scalar w is the guidance scale (CFG scale) and a higher w forces the generation to adhere more
strictly to the text prompt c:
ˆϵt = ϵθ(zt, t, ∅) + w ·
 ϵθ(zt, t, c) −ϵθ(zt, t, ∅)

3.2
CLIP
Contrastive Language–Image Pre-training (CLIP) [Radford et al., 2021] learns to connect images
and text by projecting them into a single, shared embedding space. It achieves this by training two
encoders simultaneously: a vision encoder EV and a text encoder ET . These encoders map an
image x and a text prompt p into a shared d-dimensional space, producing normalized embeddings
v = EV (x) and u = ET (p), where d is the dimensionality of this shared space.
The training objective is contrastive: given a batch of (x, p) pairs, the model is trained to maximize
the similarity for correctly matched pairs while minimizing the similarity for all incorrect unmatched
pairs. This similarity is measured by the scaled dot product of their embeddings, v⊤
i uj/τ.
LCLIP = −1
2
"
log
exp(v⊤u/τ)
P
j exp(v⊤uj/τ) + log
exp(v⊤u/τ)
P
i exp(v⊤
i u/τ)
#
,
where τ is a learned temperature parameter. This symmetric function is the average of two cross-
entropy losses. The first term (image-to-text loss) treats the task as classifying the correct text
embedding u (the "positive" sample) for a given image embedding v, out of all N text embeddings
{uj} (also including the "negative" samples) in the batch. The second term (text-to-image loss) does
the opposite, classifying the correct v for a given u from all N image embeddings {vi}.
Minimizing LCLIP forces the model to maximize the softmax probability for the correct pair in both
directions. This simultaneously maximizes the dot product of matched pairs (the numerators) and
minimizes the dot products of all unmatched, "negative" pairs (the denominators). This dynamic
"pulls" semantically related image-text embeddings together and "pushes" unrelated pairs apart,
creating a shared space where proximity equates to semantic similarity.
3.3
Learned Perceptual Similarity
The Learned Perceptual Image Patch Similarity (LPIPS) metric [Zhang et al., 2018] compares deep
features extracted from a pre-trained classification network F, which is used as a fixed feature
extractor.
Given two images, a reference xr and a perturbed image xp, both are passed through the network
F. LPIPS extracts the activation maps hl
r, hl
p ∈RCl×Hl×Wl from a set of L different layers. These
activations are then normalized along the channel dimension denoted ˆhl. The squared ℓ2 distance is
computed between these normalized activations, and this distance is then averaged across all spatial
locations. The final LPIPS score d(xr, xp) is a weighted sum of these layer-wise distances:
d(xr, xp) =
L
X
l=1
wl ·
1
HlWl
X
h,w
ˆhl
r(h, w) −ˆhl
p(h, w)
2
2
4


The small weights wl are themselves learned to best correlate with human perceptual judgments. A
lower LPIPS score d signifies a higher perceptual similarity between the two images.
4
Methods
4.1
Problem Formulation
Modern autonomous agentic AI systems increasingly rely on multimodal models that integrate vision
and language to make decisions with minimal human oversight. These systems are deployed in
real-world applications such as e-commerce, navigation agents, and booking platforms, where the
selected image directly triggers downstream actions [Davydova et al., 2025, Wang et al., 2024c], such
as clicks, follow-up queries, or further reasoning steps, making this vision-language selection layer a
key target for influencing agentic behavior [Li et al., 2025, Zhu et al., 2024].
Formally, we consider an agent driven by a multimodal model M. Consistent with standard contrastive
retrieval architectures [Radford et al., 2021], we assume M contains a text encoder ET and a vision
encoder EV . The agent receives a text prompt p and a set of n candidate images {xi}n
i=1. The model
computes an embedding for the prompt etext = ET (p), and for each image eimage(xi) = EV (xi). The
model selects the image xi that maximizes an internal relevance score of fM, defined as their cosine
similarity:
M
 p, {xi}n
i=1

= arg
max
i∈{1,...,n} fM(p, xi),
fM(p, xi) = cos
 etext, eimage(xi)

We consider an attacker whose objective is to force the agent to select a specific target image. The
attacker controls a single index t, i.e., a target image xtarget = xt, and can replace it with an
adversarially modified version xadv. The remaining n −1 images, which form the competitor set
{x(i)
comp}n−1
i=1 = {xi}i̸=t, cannot be modified by the attacker. The attack goal is to produce xadv such
that the agent selects it. Equivalently, we seek to increase the selection probability, i.e.:
M(p, {xadv} ∪{x(i)
comp}n−1
i=1 ) = xadv,
Pr

fM(p, xadv) >
max
x∈{x(i)
comp}n−1
i=1
fM(p, x)

.
(1)
This optimization is subject to the constraint that xadv remains perceptually similar to the original
image xtarget. Formally, we require d(xadv, xtarget) ≤ϵ, where d is a perceptual distance metric
(e.g., LPIPS) and ϵ is a small perceptual budget. This constraint is necessary for the attack to be viable
in a real-world system. An unconstrained attack, where an attacker simply generates a new image
xadv to perfectly match the prompt p, would be trivially defeated. Such an image would fail basic
platform-level integrity checks, such as visual hash-based deduplication or anomaly detection [Hao
et al., 2021, Wu et al., 2023, Zhou et al., 2018], which would flag the large semantic gap between the
original and modified content as a fraudulent replacement, not a subtle perturbation. The perceptual
constraint d(xadv, xtarget) ≤ϵ is explicitly designed to bypass these defenses by ensuring xadv is
perceived as a benign modification of xtarget.
This attack is performed under a realistic black-box threat model as the attacker has no access to the
model’s weights, parameters, or gradients. Their only capability is to query the model M and observe
the final selection, mimicking an attacker who can only interact with the agent’s public application.
By systematically probing the vision-language selection layer of the agentic systems, we expose and
characterize vulnerabilities in multimodal agentic systems that could be exploited to threaten the
reliability and fairness of downstream decision-making.
4.2
TRAP Framework
To expose the susceptibility of multimodal agents to this threat model, we propose TRAP, a novel
black-box optimization framework that modifies only the target image to induce consistent selection
by AI agents. TRAP diverges from traditional pixel-level perturbations by operating in CLIP’s latent
space rather than directly modifying image pixels. This allows us to steer high-level semantics in
a model-agnostic manner using a surrogate representation aligned with vision-language reasoning.
This choice is motivated by the increasing robustness of modern systems to low-level noise and the
limitations of existing pixel-based attacks in black-box, semantic decision settings [Yang et al., 2022,
Li et al., 2023, Goodfellow et al., 2015, Madry et al., 2019].
5


TRAP takes as input a target image xtarget, competitor images {x(i)
comp}n−1
i=1 , and an attacker-chosen
guidance prompt, ppos, which describes the high-level concepts to be injected. It is critical to
distinguish ppos from the unknown, user-provided prompt p that the agent receives at inference
time. The threat model does not assume knowledge of the exact p. Instead, the attacker chooses
a ppos to act as a strong semantic proxy for a family of desirable user queries (e.g., using ppos =
"steel-toe reinforced" to capture searches for both "durable boot" and "safe boot"). TRAP uses this
ppos as the optimization target for its semantic alignment loss (Lsem), taking advantage of the shared
embedding space to ensure that optimizing for ppos generalizes to increase the selection probability for
semantically similar p queries. We pre-compute the embedding for this prompt as epos = ET (ppos).
The framework iteratively optimizes the image latent embedding eadv, initialized from EV (xtarget),
to maximize its alignment with the guidance prompt’s embedding, epos. This approach is effective
because most modern multimodal models (e.g., CLIP, ALIGN, BLIP) rank images by their similarity
to the prompt in the shared embedding space; a higher alignment directly translates to a higher
likelihood of selection.
While the precise architecture of the agent may be unknown, prior work demonstrates that adversarial
examples crafted in CLIP space are transferable to other vision-language models due to shared
embedding geometries and training objectives [Huang et al., 2025]. We therefore optimize eadv using
a composite objective, and the final optimized embedding is decoded into the adversarial image xadv.
The following subsections detail each component of TRAP, and the complete process is summarized
in Algorithm 1.
4.3
Guided Embedding Optimization in CLIP Space
Our goal is to find an optimal adversarial embedding e∗
adv by minimizing a composite objective. The
optimization is as such:
e∗
adv = arg min
eadv Ltotal(eadv)
(2)
The total loss Ltotal depends on eadv as well as several other pre-computed constants. Since eadv is the
only variable, we optimize this function via gradient descent. The objective is a weighted sum of
three components where λ1, λ2, λ3 are scalar hyperparameters:
Ltotal(·) = λ1Lsem(·) + λ2Ldist(·) + λ3LLPIPS(·)
(3)
Semantic Alignment Loss (Lsem). First, to influence the model’s selection behavior in favor of
xadv, we leverage CLIP’s joint image-text embedding space, where semantically related inputs are
embedded nearby. By minimizing the cosine distance between eadv and the ℓ2-normalized positive
prompt embedding epos, we inject high-level semantic meaning directly into the image representation:
Lsem(eadv, epos) = 1 −cos(eadv, epos)
Distinctive Feature Preservation Loss (Ldist). Minimizing Lsem alone could cause eadv to lose the
image’s unique identity. To prevent this, we introduce a Siamese semantic network Sdist. This network
(e.g., a two-branch MLP) is designed to decompose a given embedding e ∈Rd into two components:
a common embedding ecom ∈Rdc and a distinctive embedding edist ∈Rdd, where dc and dd are
the dimensionalities of these two output feature spaces set within the network configurations as
hyperparameters.
Sdist(e) = (ecom, edist)
This loss penalizes the ℓ2 distance between the distinctive component of eadv and the distinctive
component of the original etarget.
Ldist(eadv, e(dist)
target) = ∥Sdist(eadv)[1] −e(dist)
target∥2
2
Here, Sadv(etarget)[1] denotes the distinctive component of Sdist (the second output of Sdist) applied
to the current eadv. The term e(dist)
target is a pre-computed constant, e(dist)
target = Sdist(EV (xtarget))[1]. This
constraint ensures that adversarial edits preserve identity-relevant features not captured by semantic
alignment alone. Without it, optimization may overfit to prompt content, collapsing diverse inputs
into visually indistinct representations (e.g., all "apple" images becoming generic red blobs). As
demonstrated in prior work on multimodal attacks [Zhang et al., 2024a, Chen et al., 2025], targeting
both shared and distinctive features increases adversarial effectiveness and transferability. Our loss
6


thus anchors the adversarial embedding to its unique identity while still allowing semantic guidance
from the prompt.
This loss creates the implicit supervision for the decomposition. By penalizing any change in the
distinctive branch, Ldist effectively "anchors" edist to its original value. This forces the optimizer to
channel the gradients from the other two losses (Lsem and LLPIPS) almost exclusively through the
common branch Sdist(eadv)[0]. This push-pull dynamic is what isolates the prompt-driven semantic
changes to ecom, while edist preserves the image’s unique identity.
Perceptual Similarity Loss (LLP IP S). Finally, to ensure the decoded image remains visually
plausible, we apply a loss in pixel space. This requires a differentiable process to decode eadv into a
candidate image xcand at each optimization step. This decoding pipeline itself has two parts.
First, we generate a semantic layout mask A ∈RH×W using a lightweight MLP encoder-decoder L
to identify regions of interest:
A = Ldec
 Lenc([epos, EV (xtarget)])

(4)
This initial mask A is a "soft" heatmap indicating semantic relevance to the prompt, but it may be
spatially imprecise. To improve localization and ensure edits are restricted to the primary subject,
we refine A using a pre-computed binary foreground mask, Fseg, obtained from a DeepLabv3
segmentation model [Chen et al., 2017a]. The final mask used for modulation is the element-wise
product:
Afinal = A ⊙Fseg
(5)
Second, at each optimization step, we extract the common component from our trainable embedding,
ecom = Sdist(eadv)[0], and modulate it with the fixed, refined mask Afinal to get emod = ecom ⊙Afinal.
This emod is passed to a differentiable image decoder SD (e.g., the VAE decoder from Stable
Diffusion), conditioned on ppos, to produce the candidate image xcand = SD(emod, ppos).
The LPIPS loss is the perceptual distance between this decoded candidate xcand and the original,
unmodified target image xtarget:
LLPIPS(xcand, xtarget) = LPIPS(xcand, xtarget)
By tracing the dependencies, xcand is a function of eadv, Afinal, and ppos. Since Afinal and ppos are
pre-computed constants, LLPIPS is an implicit function of eadv. This creates a fully differentiable path
from the pixel-space comparison back to our latent variable eadv.
Overall framework The full optimization and final decoding process is summarized as:
e∗
adv = arg min
eadv

λ1Lsem + λ2Ldist + λ3LLPIPS

,
A = Ldec(Lenc([epos, EV (xtarget)])),
Afinal = A ⊙Fseg,
ecom = Sdist(eadv)[0], xadv = SD(ecom ⊙Afinal, ppos).
(6)
with each step guided by semantic alignment, visual coherence, and layout-informed embeddings.
Algorithm 1 in the Appendix summarizes the optimization process for generating an adversarial
image given a target, a prompt, and a black-box agent model.
5
Experimental Methodology
5.1
Experimental Protocol
We evaluate our attack on 100 image-caption pairs from the popular COCO Captions dataset [Chen
et al., 2015], simulating a black-box n-way selection setting. For each instance, a "bad image" is
generated using a negative prompt created via Llama-3-8B [Grattafiori et al., 2024]. This image is
verified to have an initial selection probability below the majority threshold when compared against
n −1 competitors, ensuring a challenging starting point for optimization.
Adversarial optimization then runs for up to K = 20 outer iterations, each containing T = 20 inner
gradient-based steps, stopping early if the success condition is met. To evaluate the final optimized
image xadv, we conduct R = 100 randomized trials. In each trial, xadv and the n −1 competitors
are randomly ordered to mitigate positional bias [Tian et al., 2025], horizontally concatenated into
7


Iconcat, and queried to the agent model M. The selection probability P(xadv) is the fraction of these
R trials where xadv was chosen:
P(xadv) = 1
R
R
X
r=1
1[M(Iconcat) = xadv]
The overall Attack Success Rate (ASR) is the percentage of the 100 COCO instances where this
optimized image successfully crosses the majority threshold, i.e., P(xadv) > 1/n.
5.2
Model and Implementation Details
All experiments are implemented in PyTorch. We use CLIP ViT-B/32 [Radford et al., 2021] for
embedding extraction, with adversarial image decoding performed by Stable Diffusion v2.1 (base)
through the Img2Img interface. The optimized image embedding is repeated across 77 tokens and
injected as prompt embeddings into the UNet decoder.
The Siamese Semantic Network consists of two branches, each with two linear layers (512→1024),
BatchNorm, and ReLU, trained to decompose CLIP image embeddings into common and distinctive
features. The Layout Generator receives concatenated image and text embeddings (1536 dimensions),
processes them via an encoder (linear layers: 1536→512→1024, ReLU), reshapes to (256, 2, 2), then
upsamples with five transposed convolutional layers with ReLU and a final Sigmoid to generate a
spatial mask A ∈RH×W , which is refined with DeepLabv3 segmentation to emphasize foreground.
Optimization is performed with Adam (learning rate 0.005, 20 steps per iteration). Grid search is
conducted over diffusion strength [0.3, 0.8] and CFG [2.0, 12.0] with initial values of 0.5 and 7.5,
respectively. All experiments were run on a server with four NVIDIA A100-PCIE-40GB GPUs and
a 48-core Intel Xeon Silver 4214R CPU. Average per-iteration optimization is around 520 seconds
compared to around 376 seconds for SPSA and 110 seconds for Bandit.
6
Experimental Results
6.1
Main Findings
TRAP achieves the highest attack success rate (ASR) across all evaluated models, LLaVA-1.5 [Liu
et al., 2023a], Gemma3 [Mesnard et al., 2025], Mistral-small [Mistral AI, 2025], GPT-4o [OpenAI
et al., 2024], and CogVLM [Wang et al., 2024a]. As shown in Table 1, TRAP universally succeeds
even from a challenging low-preference baseline (0–21% ASR), while traditional baselines like SPSA
[Spall, 1987] and Bandit [Ilyas et al., 2018b] are ineffective (max 36% ASR). We also compare
against recent embedding-space attacks: SSA_CWA [Chen et al., 2024], which evaluates robustness
using embedding-based attacks, and SA_AET [Jia et al., 2025], which generates adversarial images
by projecting text embeddings onto image embeddings. While these embedding-based methods
perform better than traditional approaches, TRAP significantly outperforms all baselines. The
attack’s transferability is a key finding. It demonstrates high efficacy not only on expected contrastive
models but also on CogVLM, which uses a non-contrastive architecture. Additionally, the attack
transfers with high success to GPT-4o, a completely closed-source, black-box proprietary model.
Table 1: Comparison of adversarial attack effectiveness across evaluated methods and models.
Method
LLaVA
1.5-34B
Gemma
3-8B
Mistral-
small-3.1-24B
Mistral-
small-3.2-24B
GPT-4o
CogVLM
Initial "bad image"
21%
17%
14%
6%
0%
8%
SPSA
36%
27%
22%
11%
1%
18%
Bandit
6%
2%
1%
0%
0%
0%
Stable Diffusion
24%
18%
18%
7%
0%
20%
SSA_CWA
65%
42%
28%
18%
8%
4%
SA_AET
85%
67%
61%
55%
12%
42%
TRAP
100%
100%
100%
99%
63%
94%
We further assess TRAP against standard defenses and an adversarially trained LLaVA variant
(Robust-LLaVA). As summarized in Table 2, TRAP remains highly effective. Applying addi-
8


tive Gaussian noise to the generated adversarial images has a negligible effect on ASR (TRAP +
Gaussian Noise). Caption-level filters applied post-attack, such as CIDER [Xu et al., 2024] and
MirrorCheck [Fares et al., 2024], reduce ASR but do not eliminate the attack’s success, particularly on
the robust model. Figure 3 provides qualitative examples of successful attacks generated by TRAP.
Table 2: Robustness of TRAP Attack Under Various Defense Mechanisms and Adversarial Training.
COCO
LLaVA-1.5-
34B
Gemma3-
8B
Mistral-small-
3.1-24B
Mistral-small-
3.2-24B
Robust-
LLaVA
TRAP
100%
100%
100%
97%
92%
TRAP + Gaussian Noise
100%
100%
100%
96%
92%
TRAP + CIDER
100%
100%
96%
90%
85%
TRAP + MirrorCheck
100%
98%
88%
82%
74%
6.2
Robustness to System Prompt and Temperature
We further evaluate robustness to system-prompt phrasing and sampling temperature. Table 3 reports
∆ASR when using four different rephrased system prompt variants compared to the baseline ASR
achieved with the standard system prompt used in our main experiments, with shifts confined to low
single digits and averages near zero, indicating strong generalization under rewording. Overall, as
long as the instruction semantics are preserved, TRAP remains stable to superficial template changes.
Additional ablation study can be found in Appendix A.
Table 3: Impact of system prompt variations on attack success rate (ASR). ∆ASR is the average
deviation from baseline.
Model
Variant 1
Variant 2
Variant 3
Variant 4
Avg. ∆ASR
LLaVA-1.5-34B
+2%
−1%
+4%
+1%
+2%
Gemma3-8B
−2%
+1%
−3%
−1%
−1%
Mistral-small-3.1-24B
+1%
+2%
−1%
+0%
+1%
Figure 2 plots the ASR against the required margin over the majority choice threshold (1/n), com-
paring performance at two distinct decoding temperatures: T = 0.1 (left plot, representing near-
deterministic output) and T = 0.7 (right plot, representing more stochastic output). Across both
temperature settings, the optimized TRAP attack (solid lines) consistently maintains a high ASR,
significantly outperforming the unoptimized baseline (dashed lines) across all evaluated models. The
ASR curves for the optimized attack show minimal variation between the low-temperature (T = 0.1)
and high-temperature (T = 0.7) settings, confirming that the attack’s effectiveness is robust to
changes in the agent’s sampling temperature and ensuring reliability under both deterministic and
stochastic generation conditions.
0
5
10
15
20
% Over Majority Choice
0
20
40
60
80
100
ASR %
Over Majority Choice (T=0.1)
0
5
10
15
20
% Over Majority Choice
Over Majority Choice (T=0.7)
Legend
Optimized
Unoptimized
Gemma 3 8B
LLaVA 1.5 34B
Mistral Small 3.1 24B
Mistral Small 3.2 24B
GPT-4o
CogVLM
Figure 2: Attack success rate under different sampling temperatures.
9


Figure 3: Qualitative examples of successful attacks. Each row shows a user-facing scenario where
the attacker modifies a target image (left) into an adversarial variant (second column), evaluated
against three unmodified competitors (right).
7
Discussion
We expose a critical vulnerability in agentic AI: visually subtle, semantically guided attacks reliably
mislead VLMs even under black-box constraints. TRAP consistently induces decision-level pref-
erence redirection across all evaluated MLLMs, far exceeding traditional pixel-based and standard
diffusion baselines. This expands the attack surface in real-world multimodal agents.
Key takeaways: (1) semantic attacks are effective and transferable; (2) semantic attacks are robust to
prompt and sampling noise and remain visually plausible; (3) the vulnerability generalizes across
MLLMs; (4) existing defenses overlook this threat class.
However, the broader significance lies in what such attacks enable. By adversarially altering an image
to match a high-level semantic concept, attackers could manipulate agentic behavior in downstream
tasks, causing selection of malicious UI elements, misleading product recommendations, hijacked
retrieval in chat agents, or sabotage of autonomous perception pipelines. More importantly, these edits
remain visually natural and can be deployed in black-box settings, making them difficult to detect or
attribute compared to previous methods. This work challenges the assumption that robustness can
be measured solely through pixel-space perturbations, emphasizing the need for embedding-level
defenses and semantic-level robustness criteria.
8
Limitations
While TRAP demonstrates strong performance, several limitations must be acknowledged. We
assume that the agent relies on contrastive vision-language similarity, an assumption supported by
current architectures but potentially less valid in future systems that move completely away from
contrastive reasoning or incorporate stronger semantic defenses than the one tested. The success of
our method also depends on the quality of auxiliary components such as the layout mask and diffusion
model; performance may degrade on edge cases or under constrained resources. Finally, TRAP is
more computationally intensive than pixel-level attacks, due to its reliance on iterative optimization
and generative decoding. While this cost can be amortized in offline scenarios or reduced via model
distillation, scalability to real-time applications remains an open challenge.
Acknowledgements
We thank the anonymous reviewers for their thoughtful and constructive feedback. This work was
supported by funding through NSF Grants No. CCF-2238079, CCF-2316233, CNS-2148583 anda
Research Gift from Amazon AGI Labs.
10


References
Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jeff Donahue, Pauline Luc, Antoine Miech, Iain Barr, Yana Hasson, Karel
Lenc, Arthur Mensch, Katherine Millican, Malcolm Reynolds, et al. Flamingo: a visual language
model for few-shot learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 35,
pages 23716–23736, 2022.
Maksym Andriushchenko, Francesco Croce, Nicolas Flammarion, and Matthias Hein. Square
attack: a query-efficient black-box adversarial attack via random search, 2020. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/1912.00049.
Wieland Brendel, Jonas Rauber, and Matthias Bethge. Decision-based adversarial attacks: Reliable
attacks against black-box machine learning models. In International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2018. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.04248.
Tom B Brown, Dandelion Mané, Aurko Roy, Martín Abadi, and Justin Gilmer. Adversarial patch.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.09665, 2017. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.09665.
Nicholas Carlini and David Wagner. Towards evaluating the robustness of neural networks. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1608.04644, 2016. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.04644.
Krishna Chaitanya, Ertunc Erdil, Neerav Karani, and Ender Konukoglu. Contrastive learning of
global and local features for medical image segmentation with limited annotations, 2020. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.10511.
Huanran Chen, Yichi Zhang, Yinpeng Dong, Xiao Yang, Hang Su, and Jun Zhu. Rethinking model en-
semble in transfer-based adversarial attacks. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=AcJrSoArlh.
L. Chen, Y. Chen, Z. Ouyang, Y. Zhang, H. Deng, and H. Sun. Boosting adversarial transferability
in vision-language models via multimodal feature heterogeneity. Scientific Reports, 15:7366,
2025. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-91802-6. URL https://www.nature.com/articles/
s41598-025-91802-6.
Liang-Chieh Chen, George Papandreou, Florian Schroff, and Hartwig Adam. Rethinking atrous
convolution for semantic image segmentation, 2017a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
1706.05587.
Pin-Yu Chen, Huan Zhang, Yash Sharma, Jinfeng Yi, and Cho-Jui Hsieh. Zoo: Zeroth order
optimization based black-box attacks to deep neural networks without training substitute models.
In Proceedings of the 10th ACM Workshop on Artificial Intelligence and Security, pages 15–26,
2017b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.03999.
Xinlei Chen, Hao Fang, Tsung-Yi Lin, Ramakrishna Vedantam, Saurabh Gupta, Piotr Dollár, and
C. Lawrence Zitnick. Microsoft coco captions: Data collection and evaluation server. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1504.00325, 2015. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1504.00325.
Xuelong Dai, Kaisheng Liang, and Bin Xiao. Advdiff: Generating unrestricted adversarial examples
using diffusion models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.12499.
Mariya Davydova et al. Osuniverse: Benchmark for multimodal gui-navigation ai agents. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2505.03570, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.03570.
Samar Fares, Klea Ziu, Toluwani Aremu, Nikita Durasov, Martin Takáˇc, Pascal Fua, Karthik Nan-
dakumar, and Ivan Laptev. Mirrorcheck: Efficient adversarial defense for vision-language models,
2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.09250.
Ian J. Goodfellow, Jonathon Shlens, and Christian Szegedy. Explaining and harnessing adversarial
examples, 2015. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6572.
Aaron Grattafiori, Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad
Al-Dahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, and Alan Schelten et al. The llama 3 herd of models,
2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.21783.
11


Qingying Hao, Licheng Luo, Steve T.K. Jan, and Gang Wang. It’s not what it looks like: Manipulating
perceptual hashing based applications. In Proceedings of the 2021 ACM SIGSAC Conference
on Computer and Communications Security, CCS ’21, page 69–85, New York, NY, USA, 2021.
Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9781450384544. doi: 10.1145/3460120.3484559.
URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3460120.3484559.
Jonathan Ho and Tim Salimans. Classifier-free diffusion guidance, 2022. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2207.12598.
Hanxun Huang, Sarah Erfani, Yige Li, Xingjun Ma, and James Bailey. X-transfer attacks: Towards
super transferable adversarial attacks on clip, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.
05528.
Andrew Ilyas, Logan Engstrom, Anish Athalye, and Jessy Lin. Black-box adversarial attacks
with limited queries and information. arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.08598, 2018a. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/1804.08598.
Andrew Ilyas, Logan Engstrom, Anish Athalye, and Jessy Lin. Bandits for black-box adversarial
attacks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.07978, 2018b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.
07978.
Xiaojun Jia, Sensen Gao, Qing Guo, Simeng Qin, Ke Ma, Yihao Huang, Yang Liu, Ivor W. Tsang,
and Xiaochun Cao. Semantic-aligned adversarial evolution triangle for high-transferability vision-
language attack.
IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 47(10):
8489–8505, 2025. doi: 10.1109/TPAMI.2025.3581476.
Andreas Koukounas, Georgios Mastrapas, Bo Wang, Mohammad Kalim Akram, Sedigheh Eslami,
Michael Günther, Isabelle Mohr, Saba Sturua, Scott Martens, Nan Wang, and Han Xiao. jina-clip-
v2: Multilingual multimodal embeddings for text and images, 2024. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2412.08802.
Chae Eun Lee, Minyoung Chung, and Yeong-Gil Shin. Voxel-level siamese representation learning
for abdominal multi-organ segmentation, 2021. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.
07672.
Junnan Li, Dongxu Li, Caiming Xiong, and Steven CH Hoi. Blip: Bootstrapping language-image
pre-training for unified vision-language understanding and generation. In International Conference
on Machine Learning, pages 12888–12900. PMLR, 2022a.
Xiangyu Li, Xu Yang, Kun Wei, Cheng Deng, and Muli Yang.
Siamese contrastive em-
bedding network for compositional zero-shot learning.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 15603–15612,
2022b.
URL https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2022/papers/
Li_Siamese_Contrastive_Embedding_Network_for_Compositional_
Zero-Shot_Learning_CVPR_2022_paper.pdf.
Y. Li et al. Vision-language-action models: Concepts, progress, applications and challenges. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2505.04769, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.04769.
Yifan Li, Yujie Zhang, Yuzhuo Wang, et al. Noise-resistant multimodal transformer for emotion
recognition. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.02814, 2023.
Zhiyuan Li, Heng Wang, Dongnan Liu, Chaoyi Zhang, Ao Ma, Jieting Long, and Weidong Cai.
Multimodal causal reasoning benchmark: Challenging vision large language models to infer causal
links between siamese images. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.08105, 2024.
Zeyi Liao, Lingbo Mo, Chejian Xu, Mintong Kang, Jiawei Zhang, Chaowei Xiao, Yuan Tian, Bo Li,
and Huan Sun. Eia: Environmental injection attack on generalist web agents for privacy leakage,
2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11295.
Haotian Liu, Yuhui Zhang, Chunyuan Li, and Jianfeng Gao. Improved baselines with visual instruction
tuning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.03744, 2023a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.
03744.
12


Jiang Liu, Chen Wei, Yuxiang Guo, Heng Yu, Alan Yuille, Soheil Feizi, Chun Pong Lau, and
Rama Chellappa. Instruct2attack: Language-guided semantic adversarial attacks, 2023b. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.15551.
Zhiyue Liu, Jinyuan Liu, and Fanrong Ma. Improving cross-modal alignment with synthetic pairs for
text-only image captioning, 2023c. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08865.
Yue Lu, Chao Guo, Xingyuan Dai, and Fei-Yue Wang. Artcap: A dataset for image captioning of fine
art paintings. IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems, 11(1):576–587, 2024. doi:
10.1109/TCSS.2022.3223539.
Aleksander Madry, Aleksandar Makelov, Ludwig Schmidt, Dimitris Tsipras, and Adrian Vladu.
Towards deep learning models resistant to adversarial attacks, 2019. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/1706.06083.
Thomas Mesnard et al. Gemma 3 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.19786, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.19786.
Mistral AI. Mistral small 3.1. https://mistral.ai/news/mistral-small-3-1, 2025.
Accessed: 2025-05-09.
Seyed-Mohsen Moosavi-Dezfooli, Alhussein Fawzi, and Pascal Frossard. Deepfool: a simple and
accurate method to fool deep neural networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition, pages 2574–2582, 2016a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
1511.04599.
Seyed-Mohsen Moosavi-Dezfooli, Alhussein Fawzi, and Pascal Frossard. Deepfool: a simple and
accurate method to fool deep neural networks, 2016b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
1511.04599.
Seyed-Mohsen Moosavi-Dezfooli, Alhussein Fawzi, and Pascal Frossard. Universal adversarial
perturbations. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,
pages 1765–1773, 2017. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.08401.
OpenAI, Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni
Aleman, Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman, Shyamal Anadkat, Red Avila, Igor
Babuschkin, Suchir Balaji, Valerie Balcom, Paul Baltescu, Haiming Bao, Mohammad Bavarian,
Jeff Belgum, Irwan Bello, Jake Berdine, Gabriel Bernadett-Shapiro, Christopher Berner, Lenny
Bogdonoff, Oleg Boiko, Madelaine Boyd, Anna-Luisa Brakman, Greg Brockman, Tim Brooks,
Miles Brundage, Kevin Button, Trevor Cai, Rosie Campbell, Andrew Cann, Brittany Carey, Chelsea
Carlson, Rory Carmichael, Brooke Chan, Che Chang, Fotis Chantzis, Derek Chen, Sully Chen,
Ruby Chen, Jason Chen, Mark Chen, Ben Chess, Chester Cho, Casey Chu, Hyung Won Chung,
Dave Cummings, Jeremiah Currier, Yunxing Dai, Cory Decareaux, Thomas Degry, Noah Deutsch,
Damien Deville, Arka Dhar, David Dohan, Steve Dowling, Sheila Dunning, Adrien Ecoffet, Atty
Eleti, Tyna Eloundou, David Farhi, Liam Fedus, Niko Felix, Simón Posada Fishman, Juston Forte,
Isabella Fulford, Leo Gao, Elie Georges, Christian Gibson, Vik Goel, Tarun Gogineni, Gabriel
Goh, Rapha Gontijo-Lopes, Jonathan Gordon, Morgan Grafstein, Scott Gray, Ryan Greene, Joshua
Gross, Shixiang Shane Gu, Yufei Guo, Chris Hallacy, Jesse Han, Jeff Harris, Yuchen He, Mike
Heaton, Johannes Heidecke, Chris Hesse, Alan Hickey, Wade Hickey, Peter Hoeschele, Brandon
Houghton, Kenny Hsu, Shengli Hu, Xin Hu, Joost Huizinga, Shantanu Jain, Shawn Jain, Joanne
Jang, Angela Jiang, Roger Jiang, Haozhun Jin, Denny Jin, Shino Jomoto, Billie Jonn, Heewoo
Jun, Tomer Kaftan, Łukasz Kaiser, Ali Kamali, Ingmar Kanitscheider, Nitish Shirish Keskar,
Tabarak Khan, Logan Kilpatrick, Jong Wook Kim, Christina Kim, Yongjik Kim, Jan Hendrik
Kirchner, Jamie Kiros, Matt Knight, Daniel Kokotajlo, Łukasz Kondraciuk, Andrew Kondrich,
Aris Konstantinidis, Kyle Kosic, Gretchen Krueger, Vishal Kuo, Michael Lampe, Ikai Lan, Teddy
Lee, Jan Leike, Jade Leung, Daniel Levy, Chak Ming Li, Rachel Lim, Molly Lin, Stephanie
Lin, Mateusz Litwin, Theresa Lopez, Ryan Lowe, Patricia Lue, Anna Makanju, Kim Malfacini,
Sam Manning, Todor Markov, Yaniv Markovski, Bianca Martin, Katie Mayer, Andrew Mayne,
Bob McGrew, Scott Mayer McKinney, Christine McLeavey, Paul McMillan, Jake McNeil, David
Medina, Aalok Mehta, Jacob Menick, Luke Metz, Andrey Mishchenko, Pamela Mishkin, Vinnie
Monaco, Evan Morikawa, Daniel Mossing, Tong Mu, Mira Murati, Oleg Murk, David Mély,
Ashvin Nair, Reiichiro Nakano, Rajeev Nayak, Arvind Neelakantan, Richard Ngo, Hyeonwoo
13


Noh, Long Ouyang, Cullen O’Keefe, Jakub Pachocki, Alex Paino, Joe Palermo, Ashley Pantuliano,
Giambattista Parascandolo, Joel Parish, Emy Parparita, Alex Passos, Mikhail Pavlov, Andrew Peng,
Adam Perelman, Filipe de Avila Belbute Peres, Michael Petrov, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto,
Michael, Pokorny, Michelle Pokrass, Vitchyr H. Pong, Tolly Powell, Alethea Power, Boris Power,
Elizabeth Proehl, Raul Puri, Alec Radford, Jack Rae, Aditya Ramesh, Cameron Raymond, Francis
Real, Kendra Rimbach, Carl Ross, Bob Rotsted, Henri Roussez, Nick Ryder, Mario Saltarelli, Ted
Sanders, Shibani Santurkar, Girish Sastry, Heather Schmidt, David Schnurr, John Schulman, Daniel
Selsam, Kyla Sheppard, Toki Sherbakov, Jessica Shieh, Sarah Shoker, Pranav Shyam, Szymon
Sidor, Eric Sigler, Maddie Simens, Jordan Sitkin, Katarina Slama, Ian Sohl, Benjamin Sokolowsky,
Yang Song, Natalie Staudacher, Felipe Petroski Such, Natalie Summers, Ilya Sutskever, Jie
Tang, Nikolas Tezak, Madeleine B. Thompson, Phil Tillet, Amin Tootoonchian, Elizabeth Tseng,
Preston Tuggle, Nick Turley, Jerry Tworek, Juan Felipe Cerón Uribe, Andrea Vallone, Arun
Vijayvergiya, Chelsea Voss, Carroll Wainwright, Justin Jay Wang, Alvin Wang, Ben Wang,
Jonathan Ward, Jason Wei, CJ Weinmann, Akila Welihinda, Peter Welinder, Jiayi Weng, Lilian
Weng, Matt Wiethoff, Dave Willner, Clemens Winter, Samuel Wolrich, Hannah Wong, Lauren
Workman, Sherwin Wu, Jeff Wu, Michael Wu, Kai Xiao, Tao Xu, Sarah Yoo, Kevin Yu, Qiming
Yuan, Wojciech Zaremba, Rowan Zellers, Chong Zhang, Marvin Zhang, Shengjia Zhao, Tianhao
Zheng, Juntang Zhuang, William Zhuk, and Barret Zoph. Gpt-4 technical report, 2024. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.08774.
Dustin Podell, Zion English, Kyle Lacey, Andreas Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Jonas Müller, Joe
Penna, and Robin Rombach. Sdxl: Improving latent diffusion models for high-resolution image
synthesis, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.01952.
Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal,
Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, Gretchen Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever.
Learning transferable visual models from natural language supervision, 2021. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2103.00020.
Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Björn Ommer. High-
resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Confer-
ence on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 10684–10695, June 2022a.
Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Björn Ommer. High-
resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models, 2022b. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2112.10752.
James C. Spall. A stochastic approximation technique for generating maximum likelihood parameter
estimates. In Proceedings of the American Control Conference, pages 1161–1167, Minneapolis,
MN, 1987.
Xinyu Tian, Shu Zou, Zhaoyuan Yang, and Jing Zhang. Identifying and mitigating position bias of
multi-image vision-language models, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.13792.
Jonathan Uesato, Brendan O’Donoghue, Aaron van den Oord, and Pushmeet Kohli. Adversarial risk
and the dangers of evaluating against weak attacks, 2018. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
1802.05666.
Chenan Wang, Jinhao Duan, Chaowei Xiao, Edward Kim, Matthew Stamm, and Kaidi Xu. Semantic
adversarial attacks via diffusion models, 2023.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.
07398.
Weihan Wang, Qingsong Lv, Wenmeng Yu, Wenyi Hong, Ji Qi, Yan Wang, Junhui Ji, Zhuoyi
Yang, Lei Zhao, Xixuan Song, Jiazheng Xu, Bin Xu, Juanzi Li, Yuxiao Dong, Ming Ding,
and Jie Tang. Cogvlm: Visual expert for pretrained language models, 2024a. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2311.03079.
Yifei Wang, Dizhan Xue, Shengjie Zhang, and Shengsheng Qian. Badagent: Inserting and activating
backdoor attacks in llm agents, 2024b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.03007.
Yufei Wang et al.
Seeact: A strong vision-language model for visually grounded action.
In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR),
2024c. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09691.
14


Fangzhou Wu, Shutong Wu, Yulong Cao, and Chaowei Xiao. Wipi: A new web threat for llm-driven
web agents, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16965.
Ke Wu, Zichi Wang, Xinpeng Zhang, and Zhenjun Tang. Defending against adversarial examples
using perceptual image hashing. Journal of Electronic Imaging, 32:023016, March 2023. doi:
10.1117/1.JEI.32.2.023016.
Yue Xu, Xiuyuan Qi, Zhan Qin, and Wenjie Wang. Cross-modality information check for detecting
jailbreaking in multimodal large language models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2407.21659.
Wenkai Yang, Xiaohan Bi, Yankai Lin, Sishuo Chen, Jie Zhou, and Xu Sun. Watch out for your
agents! investigating backdoor threats to llm-based agents, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2402.11208.
Ziyang Yang, Yichao Xu, Yuxuan Wang, et al. Robust-msa: Understanding the impact of modality
noise on multimodal sentiment analysis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.13484, 2022.
Shengfang Zhai, Yinpeng Dong, Qingni Shen, Shi Pu, Yuejian Fang, and Hang Su. Text-to-image
diffusion models can be easily backdoored through multimodal data poisoning, 2023a. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.04175.
Xiaohua Zhai, Basil Mustafa, Alexander Kolesnikov, and Lucas Beyer. Sigmoid loss for language
image pre-training. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.15343, 2023b.
Richard Zhang, Phillip Isola, Alexei A. Efros, Eli Shechtman, and Oliver Wang. The unreasonable
effectiveness of deep features as a perceptual metric, 2018. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
1801.03924.
Tingwei Zhang, Rishi Jha, Eugene Bagdasaryan, and Vitaly Shmatikov. Adversarial illusions in
multi-modal embeddings, 2024a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.11804.
Yanzhe Zhang, Tao Yu, and Diyi Yang. Attacking vision-language computer agents via pop-ups.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.02391, 2024b.
Peng Zhou, Xintong Han, Vlad I. Morariu, and Larry S. Davis. Learning rich features for image
manipulation detection, 2018. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.04953.
Ziqi Zhou, Shengshan Hu, Minghui Li, Hangtao Zhang, Yechao Zhang, and Hai Jin. Advclip:
Downstream-agnostic adversarial examples in multimodal contrastive learning, 2023.
URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.07026.
Yujia Zhu et al. Vlmbench: Evaluating llms as agents in the wild. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.08191,
2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.08191.
15


NeurIPS Paper Checklist
1. Claims
Question: Do the main claims made in the abstract and introduction accurately reflect the
paper’s contributions and scope?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The abstract and introduction precisely state the contributions, introducing
TRAP, describing its generative adversarial approach, reporting attack success rates, and
highlighting the security implications. All claims are directly supported by experimental
results (Sections 1, 6).
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the abstract and introduction do not include the claims
made in the paper.
• The abstract and/or introduction should clearly state the claims made, including the
contributions made in the paper and important assumptions and limitations. A No or
NA answer to this question will not be perceived well by the reviewers.
• The claims made should match theoretical and experimental results, and reflect how
much the results can be expected to generalize to other settings.
• It is fine to include aspirational goals as motivation as long as it is clear that these goals
are not attained by the paper.
2. Limitations
Question: Does the paper discuss the limitations of the work performed by the authors?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: Section 8 directly discusses the limitations, including generalizability to real-
world deployments, assumptions about agent model architectures, computational cost, and
dependency on quality of auxiliary components.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper has no limitation while the answer No means that
the paper has limitations, but those are not discussed in the paper.
• The authors are encouraged to create a separate "Limitations" section in their paper.
• The paper should point out any strong assumptions and how robust the results are to
violations of these assumptions (e.g., independence assumptions, noiseless settings,
model well-specification, asymptotic approximations only holding locally). The authors
should reflect on how these assumptions might be violated in practice and what the
implications would be.
• The authors should reflect on the scope of the claims made, e.g., if the approach was
only tested on a few datasets or with a few runs. In general, empirical results often
depend on implicit assumptions, which should be articulated.
• The authors should reflect on the factors that influence the performance of the approach.
For example, a facial recognition algorithm may perform poorly when image resolution
is low or images are taken in low lighting. Or a speech-to-text system might not be
used reliably to provide closed captions for online lectures because it fails to handle
technical jargon.
• The authors should discuss the computational efficiency of the proposed algorithms
and how they scale with dataset size.
• If applicable, the authors should discuss possible limitations of their approach to
address problems of privacy and fairness.
• While the authors might fear that complete honesty about limitations might be used by
reviewers as grounds for rejection, a worse outcome might be that reviewers discover
limitations that aren’t acknowledged in the paper. The authors should use their best
judgment and recognize that individual actions in favor of transparency play an impor-
tant role in developing norms that preserve the integrity of the community. Reviewers
will be specifically instructed to not penalize honesty concerning limitations.
3. Theory assumptions and proofs
16


Question: For each theoretical result, does the paper provide the full set of assumptions and
a complete (and correct) proof?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: The paper does not introduce formal theoretical results or proofs, focusing
instead on empirical methodology and algorithmic design.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include theoretical results.
• All the theorems, formulas, and proofs in the paper should be numbered and cross-
referenced.
• All assumptions should be clearly stated or referenced in the statement of any theorems.
• The proofs can either appear in the main paper or the supplemental material, but if
they appear in the supplemental material, the authors are encouraged to provide a short
proof sketch to provide intuition.
• Inversely, any informal proof provided in the core of the paper should be complemented
by formal proofs provided in appendix or supplemental material.
• Theorems and Lemmas that the proof relies upon should be properly referenced.
4. Experimental result reproducibility
Question: Does the paper fully disclose all the information needed to reproduce the main ex-
perimental results of the paper to the extent that it affects the main claims and/or conclusions
of the paper (regardless of whether the code and data are provided or not)?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: Section 5 provides comprehensive details on datasets, model architectures, opti-
mization procedures, experimental protocols, and evaluation metrics, enabling reproduction
of key results.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• If the paper includes experiments, a No answer to this question will not be perceived
well by the reviewers: Making the paper reproducible is important, regardless of
whether the code and data are provided or not.
• If the contribution is a dataset and/or model, the authors should describe the steps taken
to make their results reproducible or verifiable.
• Depending on the contribution, reproducibility can be accomplished in various ways.
For example, if the contribution is a novel architecture, describing the architecture fully
might suffice, or if the contribution is a specific model and empirical evaluation, it may
be necessary to either make it possible for others to replicate the model with the same
dataset, or provide access to the model. In general. releasing code and data is often
one good way to accomplish this, but reproducibility can also be provided via detailed
instructions for how to replicate the results, access to a hosted model (e.g., in the case
of a large language model), releasing of a model checkpoint, or other means that are
appropriate to the research performed.
• While NeurIPS does not require releasing code, the conference does require all submis-
sions to provide some reasonable avenue for reproducibility, which may depend on the
nature of the contribution. For example
(a) If the contribution is primarily a new algorithm, the paper should make it clear how
to reproduce that algorithm.
(b) If the contribution is primarily a new model architecture, the paper should describe
the architecture clearly and fully.
(c) If the contribution is a new model (e.g., a large language model), then there should
either be a way to access this model for reproducing the results or a way to reproduce
the model (e.g., with an open-source dataset or instructions for how to construct
the dataset).
(d) We recognize that reproducibility may be tricky in some cases, in which case
authors are welcome to describe the particular way they provide for reproducibility.
In the case of closed-source models, it may be that access to the model is limited in
17


some way (e.g., to registered users), but it should be possible for other researchers
to have some path to reproducing or verifying the results.
5. Open access to data and code
Question: Does the paper provide open access to the data and code, with sufficient instruc-
tions to faithfully reproduce the main experimental results, as described in supplemental
material?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: We are including instructions and algorithms sufficient to reproduce our results
to the supplementary material. A link to the Github has also been added to the camera-ready
version of the abstract.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that paper does not include experiments requiring code.
• Please see the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https://nips.cc/
public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy) for more details.
• While we encourage the release of code and data, we understand that this might not be
possible, so “No” is an acceptable answer. Papers cannot be rejected simply for not
including code, unless this is central to the contribution (e.g., for a new open-source
benchmark).
• The instructions should contain the exact command and environment needed to run to
reproduce the results. See the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https:
//nips.cc/public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy) for more details.
• The authors should provide instructions on data access and preparation, including how
to access the raw data, preprocessed data, intermediate data, and generated data, etc.
• The authors should provide scripts to reproduce all experimental results for the new
proposed method and baselines. If only a subset of experiments are reproducible, they
should state which ones are omitted from the script and why.
• At submission time, to preserve anonymity, the authors should release anonymized
versions (if applicable).
• Providing as much information as possible in supplemental material (appended to the
paper) is recommended, but including URLs to data and code is permitted.
6. Experimental setting/details
Question: Does the paper specify all the training and test details (e.g., data splits, hyper-
parameters, how they were chosen, type of optimizer, etc.) necessary to understand the
results?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: Section 5.2 and Section 5.1 detail all training/test splits, hyperparameters
(including optimizer and settings), model architectures, and evaluation protocol.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The experimental setting should be presented in the core of the paper to a level of detail
that is necessary to appreciate the results and make sense of them.
• The full details can be provided either with the code, in appendix, or as supplemental
material.
7. Experiment statistical significance
Question: Does the paper report error bars suitably and correctly defined or other appropriate
information about the statistical significance of the experiments?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: Error bars are present in the figures in Section 6 and details surrounding the
experiments are given.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
18


• The authors should answer "Yes" if the results are accompanied by error bars, confi-
dence intervals, or statistical significance tests, at least for the experiments that support
the main claims of the paper.
• The factors of variability that the error bars are capturing should be clearly stated (for
example, train/test split, initialization, random drawing of some parameter, or overall
run with given experimental conditions).
• The method for calculating the error bars should be explained (closed form formula,
call to a library function, bootstrap, etc.)
• The assumptions made should be given (e.g., Normally distributed errors).
• It should be clear whether the error bar is the standard deviation or the standard error
of the mean.
• It is OK to report 1-sigma error bars, but one should state it. The authors should
preferably report a 2-sigma error bar than state that they have a 96% CI, if the hypothesis
of Normality of errors is not verified.
• For asymmetric distributions, the authors should be careful not to show in tables or
figures symmetric error bars that would yield results that are out of range (e.g. negative
error rates).
• If error bars are reported in tables or plots, The authors should explain in the text how
they were calculated and reference the corresponding figures or tables in the text.
8. Experiments compute resources
Question: For each experiment, does the paper provide sufficient information on the com-
puter resources (type of compute workers, memory, time of execution) needed to reproduce
the experiments?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: Section 5.2 lists the hardware used, reports average per-iteration runtime, and
compares compute times to baseline methods.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The paper should indicate the type of compute workers CPU or GPU, internal cluster,
or cloud provider, including relevant memory and storage.
• The paper should provide the amount of compute required for each of the individual
experimental runs as well as estimate the total compute.
• The paper should disclose whether the full research project required more compute
than the experiments reported in the paper (e.g., preliminary or failed experiments that
didn’t make it into the paper).
9. Code of ethics
Question: Does the research conducted in the paper conform, in every respect, with the
NeurIPS Code of Ethics https://neurips.cc/public/EthicsGuidelines?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The paper aligns with the NeurIPS Code of Ethics, using only open, licensed
datasets and models, addresses both technical and societal implications, and preserves
anonymity.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the authors have not reviewed the NeurIPS Code of Ethics.
• If the authors answer No, they should explain the special circumstances that require a
deviation from the Code of Ethics.
• The authors should make sure to preserve anonymity (e.g., if there is a special consid-
eration due to laws or regulations in their jurisdiction).
10. Broader impacts
Question: Does the paper discuss both potential positive societal impacts and negative
societal impacts of the work performed?
Answer: [Yes]
19


Justification: Section 7 extensively discusses the broader implications, including security
risks of agentic AI, calls for improved defenses, and possible real-world harms.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that there is no societal impact of the work performed.
• If the authors answer NA or No, they should explain why their work has no societal
impact or why the paper does not address societal impact.
• Examples of negative societal impacts include potential malicious or unintended uses
(e.g., disinformation, generating fake profiles, surveillance), fairness considerations
(e.g., deployment of technologies that could make decisions that unfairly impact specific
groups), privacy considerations, and security considerations.
• The conference expects that many papers will be foundational research and not tied
to particular applications, let alone deployments. However, if there is a direct path to
any negative applications, the authors should point it out. For example, it is legitimate
to point out that an improvement in the quality of generative models could be used to
generate deepfakes for disinformation. On the other hand, it is not needed to point out
that a generic algorithm for optimizing neural networks could enable people to train
models that generate Deepfakes faster.
• The authors should consider possible harms that could arise when the technology is
being used as intended and functioning correctly, harms that could arise when the
technology is being used as intended but gives incorrect results, and harms following
from (intentional or unintentional) misuse of the technology.
• If there are negative societal impacts, the authors could also discuss possible mitigation
strategies (e.g., gated release of models, providing defenses in addition to attacks,
mechanisms for monitoring misuse, mechanisms to monitor how a system learns from
feedback over time, improving the efficiency and accessibility of ML).
11. Safeguards
Question: Does the paper describe safeguards that have been put in place for responsible
release of data or models that have a high risk for misuse (e.g., pretrained language models,
image generators, or scraped datasets)?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: Our work does not release any new models, datasets, or pretrained components
that pose a risk of misuse. Our contributions are limited to a black-box evaluation framework
and do not introduce new generative capabilities or data sources that would require additional
safeguards.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper poses no such risks.
• Released models that have a high risk for misuse or dual-use should be released with
necessary safeguards to allow for controlled use of the model, for example by requiring
that users adhere to usage guidelines or restrictions to access the model or implementing
safety filters.
• Datasets that have been scraped from the Internet could pose safety risks. The authors
should describe how they avoided releasing unsafe images.
• We recognize that providing effective safeguards is challenging, and many papers do
not require this, but we encourage authors to take this into account and make a best
faith effort.
12. Licenses for existing assets
Question: Are the creators or original owners of assets (e.g., code, data, models), used in
the paper, properly credited and are the license and terms of use explicitly mentioned and
properly respected?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: All datasets, models and baselines are properly cited in the references; license
information is standard for these widely-used assets.
Guidelines:
20


• The answer NA means that the paper does not use existing assets.
• The authors should cite the original paper that produced the code package or dataset.
• The authors should state which version of the asset is used and, if possible, include a
URL.
• The name of the license (e.g., CC-BY 4.0) should be included for each asset.
• For scraped data from a particular source (e.g., website), the copyright and terms of
service of that source should be provided.
• If assets are released, the license, copyright information, and terms of use in the package
should be provided. For popular datasets, paperswithcode.com/datasets has
curated licenses for some datasets. Their licensing guide can help determine the license
of a dataset.
• For existing datasets that are re-packaged, both the original license and the license of
the derived asset (if it has changed) should be provided.
• If this information is not available online, the authors are encouraged to reach out to
the asset’s creators.
13. New assets
Question: Are new assets introduced in the paper well documented and is the documentation
provided alongside the assets?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: The paper does not introduce new datasets or pre-trained models; all empirical
work is based on existing assets.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not release new assets.
• Researchers should communicate the details of the dataset/code/model as part of their
submissions via structured templates. This includes details about training, license,
limitations, etc.
• The paper should discuss whether and how consent was obtained from people whose
asset is used.
• At submission time, remember to anonymize your assets (if applicable). You can either
create an anonymized URL or include an anonymized zip file.
14. Crowdsourcing and research with human subjects
Question: For crowdsourcing experiments and research with human subjects, does the paper
include the full text of instructions given to participants and screenshots, if applicable, as
well as details about compensation (if any)?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: The research does not involve any crowdsourcing or human subject studies.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with
human subjects.
• Including this information in the supplemental material is fine, but if the main contribu-
tion of the paper involves human subjects, then as much detail as possible should be
included in the main paper.
• According to the NeurIPS Code of Ethics, workers involved in data collection, curation,
or other labor should be paid at least the minimum wage in the country of the data
collector.
15. Institutional review board (IRB) approvals or equivalent for research with human
subjects
Question: Does the paper describe potential risks incurred by study participants, whether
such risks were disclosed to the subjects, and whether Institutional Review Board (IRB)
approvals (or an equivalent approval/review based on the requirements of your country or
institution) were obtained?
Answer: [NA]
21


Justification: No human subjects or participant risks are involved in this research.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with
human subjects.
• Depending on the country in which research is conducted, IRB approval (or equivalent)
may be required for any human subjects research. If you obtained IRB approval, you
should clearly state this in the paper.
• We recognize that the procedures for this may vary significantly between institutions
and locations, and we expect authors to adhere to the NeurIPS Code of Ethics and the
guidelines for their institution.
• For initial submissions, do not include any information that would break anonymity (if
applicable), such as the institution conducting the review.
16. Declaration of LLM usage
Question: Does the paper describe the usage of LLMs if it is an important, original, or
non-standard component of the core methods in this research? Note that if the LLM is used
only for writing, editing, or formatting purposes and does not impact the core methodology,
scientific rigorousness, or originality of the research, declaration is not required.
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: Section 5.1 describes the use of LLMs (Llama-3-8B) to generate negative
prompts for constructing challenging adversarial examples.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the core method development in this research does not
involve LLMs as any important, original, or non-standard components.
• Please refer to our LLM policy (https://neurips.cc/Conferences/2025/
LLM) for what should or should not be described.
22


A
Appendix
A.1
Algorithm
Algorithm 1 TRAP Framework
Require: Target image xtarget, guidance prompt ppos, competitor set {x(i)
comp}n−1
i=1 , black-box agent
M
Require: Encoders EV , ET ; Decoder SD; Siamese Network Sdist, L; Seg. model Fmodel
Require: Hyperparameters λ1, λ2, λ3; Loops K, T; Evals R
Ensure: Optimized adversarial image xadv
1: Initialize best_score ←0, n ←|{x(i)
comp}n−1
i=1 | + 1
2: etarget ←EV (xtarget)
3: epos ←ET (ppos)
4: e(target)
dist
←Sdist(etarget)[1]
5: A ←L(epos, etarget)
6: Fseg ←Fmodel(xtarget)
7: Afinal ←A ⊙Fseg
8: xadv ←xtarget
9: for k = 1 to K do
10:
eadv ←etarget
11:
for t = 1 to T do
12:
(ecom, edist_adv) ←Sdist(eadv)
13:
emod ←ecom ⊙Afinal
14:
xcand ←SD(emod, ppos)
15:
Lsem ←1 −cos(eadv, epos)
16:
Ldist ←∥edist_adv −e(target)
dist
∥2
2
17:
LLPIPS ←LPIPS(xcand, xtarget)
18:
L ←λ1Lsem + λ2Ldist + λ3LLPIPS
19:
Update eadv using gradient descent on L
20:
end for
21:
(ecom_final, _) ←Sdist(eadv)
22:
xfinal_cand ←SD(ecom_final ⊙Afinal, ppos)
23:
Pselect ←EstimateProb(M, ppos, xfinal_cand, {x(i)
comp}n−1
i=1 , R)
24:
if Pselect > best_score then
25:
best_score ←Pselect
26:
xadv ←xfinal_cand
27:
end if
28:
if best_score ≥1/n then
29:
break
30:
end if
31: end for
32: return xadv
A.2
Ablation Study
A.2.1
Iterative Refinement
To provide a more intuitive understanding of our method’s behavior, we present a series of qualitative
examples in Figure 4. This figure visualizes the output of our iterative refinement process on three
distinct image-prompt pairs, showcasing the progressive transformation of the input images over a
sequence of iterations.
Figure 4 illustrates the model’s ability to apply semantically-guided changes that evolve in complexity
as the number of iterations increases. Each row corresponds to a specific prompt: "a piece of cake on
a table" , "a large building with a clock on the side of it" , and "a bouquet of flowers in a vase on a
table".
23


Figure 4: Qualitative results of the iterative image generation process. Each row begins with
an original source image and a corresponding text prompt, followed by the generated outputs at
iterations 1, 5, and 10. The examples demonstrate a range of transformations, from subtle refinement
to significant stylistic alteration.
A.2.2
Evaluation on Additional Datasets
We evaluate TRAP on two additional distributions, Flickr8k_sketch and ArtCapt [Lu et al., 2024].
Across both settings and across diverse VLM backbones (LLaVA-1.5-34B, Gemma3-8B, Mistral
variants, GPT-4o), TRAP consistently outperforms baseline attacks (Tables 4 and 5). This pattern
suggests the objective is not tied to a single model family and transfers across architectures and data
regimes.
Table 4: TRAP Attack Success Across Sketch and Abstract Image Dataset (Flickr8k_sketch).
Flickr8k_sketch
LLaVA-1.5-
34B
Gemma3-
8B
Mistral-small
3.1-24B
Mistral-small
3.2-24B
GPT-4o
SPSA
41%
33%
31%
26%
16%
Bandit
4%
3%
1%
0%
0%
Stable Diffusion (no opt.)
20%
22%
18%
11%
4%
TRAP
100%
100%
100%
96%
72%
Table 5: TRAP Attack Success Rates Across Artistic Image Styles (ArtCap Dataset).
ArtCap
LLaVA-1.5-
34B
Gemma3-
8B
Mistral-small
3.1-24B
Mistral-small
3.2-24B
GPT-4o
SPSA
33%
29%
20%
21%
18%
Bandit
7%
3%
0%
0%
0%
Stable Diffusion (no opt.)
25%
20%
17%
10%
2%
TRAP
100%
100%
100%
95%
58%
A.2.3
Variation in Hyperparameters
We vary the relative weights of the perceptual, semantic, and distinctive objectives. Increasing
the perceptual and semantic terms preserves strong performance, whereas aggressively scaling the
distinctive term can reduce transfer on some targets (Table 6). These trends align with the intuition
24


that over-emphasizing uniqueness may hurt cross-model alignment. On the other hand, decreasing
the perceptual and distinctive terms maintains strong performance, while removing the semantic term
showed a significant decrease in the performance (Table 7).
Table 6: Effect of Increasing Lambda Coefficients on Attack Success Rate.
LLaVA-1.5-
34B
Gemma3-
8B
Mistral-small-
3.1-24B
Mistral-small-
3.2-24B
Perceptual Loss
1.0 →1.5
100%
100%
100%
98%
Semantic Loss
0.5 →1.0
100%
100%
94%
92%
Distinctive Loss
0.3 →0.8
88%
70%
72%
65%
Table 7: Effect of Decreasing Lambda Coefficients on Attack Success Rate.
LLaVA-1.5-
34B
Gemma3-
8B
Mistral-small-
3.1-24B
Mistral-small-
3.2-24B
Perceptual Loss
1.0 →0.8
100%
100%
98%
94%
Semantic Loss
0.5 →0.0
90%
82%
77%
70%
Distinctive Loss
0.3 →0.0
100%
100%
91%
88%
A.2.4
Embedding Model Choice
Substituting a range of image embedding backbones (from ViT-B/32 to larger SigLIP-style mod-
els [Zhai et al., 2023b] and Jina-CLIP [Koukounas et al., 2024]) yields essentially the same outcome
(Table 8), indicating that TRAP is not unduly sensitive to the representation family. This stability
simplifies deployment since the attack does not hinge on a particular feature extractor.
Table 8: TRAP Attack Success Rates Ablation on Different Embedding Models.
Embedding model
LLaVA-1.5-
34B
Gemma3-
8B
Mistral-
small-3.1-24B
ViT-B/32
100%
100%
100%
timm/ViT-SO400M-14-SigLIP-384
100%
100%
99%
jinaai/jina-clip-v2
100%
100%
97%
A.2.5
Different Diffusion Model
We also swap the image generator among popular Stable Diffusion variants. Performance remains
consistent across SD-2.1 [Rombach et al., 2022a], SD-XL [Podell et al., 2023], and SD-1.5 (Table 9),
suggesting the synthesis backend is not a critical factor for the attack.
A.2.6
E-commerce Webpage Scenario
In a more realistic page-level setting, TRAP maintains a sizable margin over prior strategies (Table 10).
While absolute rates are lower than in curated benchmarks, the relative gains persist under stronger
content controls.
25


Table 9: Attack Success Rates Ablation on Different Stable Diffusion Image Generators.
Generator
LLaVA-1.5-
34B
Gemma3-
8B
Mistral-small-
3.1-24B
stable-diffusion-2-1
100%
100%
100%
stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0
100%
100%
100%
stable-diffusion-v1-5
100%
100%
100%
Table 10: Attack Success Rates of TRAP and Baselines in E-commerce Webpage Scenarios.
COCO
LLaVA-1.5-
34B
Gemma3-
8B
Mistral-small-
3.1-24B
Mistral-small-
3.2-24B
SPSA
10%
7%
1%
0%
Bandit
0%
0%
0%
0%
Stable Diffusion
13%
0%
3%
0%
SSA_CWA
20%
17%
13%
12%
SA_AET
30%
24%
7%
3%
TRAP
51%
50%
27%
17%
A.2.7
Efficiency Considerations
Finally, we report end-to-end compute. As expected for optimization-based attacks, TRAP is more
expensive per sample than lightweight heuristics (Table 11). This overhead can be mitigated with
standard engineering (e.g., early stopping, caching, adaptive step sizes) and batching.
Table 11: Total Computation Time per Sample.
Computational
Time per Step (s)
# of Steps
per Iteration
# of
Iterations
Total Computational
Time per Sample (s)
SPSA
0.94
20
20
376s
Bandit
0.00022
10,000
50
110s
Stable Diffusion
4.6
1
1
4.6s
TRAP
1.3
20
20
520s
26
